Raven: Raven's Home
was filmed in front of
a live studio audience.
(buzzing)
Tuna sandwich on rye,
salt and vinegar chips,
and a root beer
to wash it down.
Wow. How'd you know
what I had for lunch?
'Cause you're standing
a little too close.
Sorry.
I'm just...
I'm just learning
so much from you.
I wanna soak it all in.
Yeah, and you're a quick
study to go from house sweeper
to apprentice so quickly.
Here's a breath mint.
So,
Mr. Arthur, do you think I
can start cutting hair soon?
(laughing)
Oh my goodness...
W‐w‐what's so funny?
You! Come on, slow down.
You think Neil Armstrong
hopped in a bouncy house
one day and then said,
"I'm ready to
walk on the moon?"
(laughing)
Come on, man.
What does that have
to do with cutting hair?
Well, it takes years
to be a master cutter!
It's an art form!
If it was easy,
everybody would be doin' it.
But, you said
I was a quick study.
And you need to study some more,
and you need to
get certified.
When did you get
certified, Mr. Arthur?
I was cutting hair
before there was
a board of certification, so...
I'm grandfathered in.
(laughing)
Man, go to work.
‐♪ Hey ♪
‐♪ Yo ♪
♪ Let me tell you somethin' ♪
♪ Had my vision
all worked out ♪
♪ But then life
had other plans ♪
♪ Tell 'em, Rae ♪
♪ It's crazy when things
turn upside down ♪
♪ But ya gotta get up
and take that chance ♪
‐♪ Maybe I'm
just finding my way ♪
‐♪ Learning how to fly ♪
‐♪ Yeah, we're gonna be okay ♪
‐♪ Ya know I got you, right? ♪
♪ It might be wild, but ya
know that we make it work ♪
♪ We're just kids
caught up in a crazy world ♪
‐♪ C'mon! ♪
‐♪ It's Raven's Home ♪
‐♪ We get loud! ♪
♪ It's our crowd! ♪
♪ Might be tough,
but together
we make it look good ♪
♪ Down for each other
like family should ♪
♪ It's Raven's Home ♪
♪ When it's tough ♪
♪ We got love ♪
♪ 'Cos no matter the weather,
ya know we gon' shine ♪
♪ There for each other,
ya know it's our time ♪
(Raven laughing)
Yep! That's us.
(laughing)
♪ ♪
Ugh! Why are we always
waiting on Booker?
He always gets
distracted.
Do you see how many
mirrors are in there?
‐What's up, Ramon?
‐Hey, Tess.
'Sup, Nia. What are
you guys doing here?
We're waiting on
a sloth named Booker.
‐(laughing)
‐Yo, Coach Spitz
was on one today.
Why'd he have us
running so many drills?
‐It's like he gets a kick out
of blowing his little whistle.
‐(laughing)
Oh, and speaking of kicks,
those are fresh.
Aw, man, thanks.
I try. I like your haircut.
I try. All right,
well, I gotta go.
‐See you at school tomorrow?
‐Yep. Later.
Ooh!
Someone's got a crush!
What are you talking about?
Oh, don't play
dumb with me, Tess.
Your face is as red as
a new crayon right now.
Ramon and I are just
friends. We're homies.
You mean honeys.
You like him, Tess,
you really like him!
No, stop!
I don't like him!
‐'Sup, y'all?
‐Nothing!
W‐w‐why would you
think something's up?
Gotta go.
Is my breath really that bad?
(breathes, sniffs)
♪ ♪
‐(gasp) Chels, Chels!
‐Hey, hey, hey!
What do you think
about this poster?
"Your Best Dressed Life."
I love it!
I know, right? (scream)
Can you believe we're
almost ready to open?
‐I can't.
‐We got the publicity
in place‐‐
We're expecting
a great turnout‐‐
‐Everything is perfect.
‐It is! It is!
(laughing) Wait.
(clears throat)
Is it? I mean,
we've only life‐styled
one person, like, once.
Chels, we invested
all of our money
into designing a place
and starting a business all...
because of that once.
Yeah, Rae. Once.
I mean, are we really
ready for this?
‐What if we don't
know what we're doing?
‐I don't know.
Is this what impostor
syndrome feels like?
What if we fail?
I don't know, Rae.
I don't know,
but I really can't handle
the pressure, okay?
‐(stirring)
‐I'm freaking out!
Okay, okay, Chels, Chels,
Chels, stop, stop, stop!
Put it down. Okay.
‐Come on, let's‐‐
let's take a breath.
‐Yeah.
(both inhale, exhale)
‐Ah.
‐There you go.
That feels good, right?
(inhale, exhale)
Listen, we cannot
doubt ourselves.
‐The best way to prove
that we're ready‐‐
‐Is leap
and see if we're
given wings to fly!
(laughing)
No, and don't jump 'cause
I'm not gonna catch you.
I'm just saying maybe
we should try out
our services
on each other.
Oh yes! Yes, very good.
Very sensible.
(chuckle)
What exactly do you mean?
You give me a life
coaching session,
and I'll give you
a styling session.
Of course! Yes!
That's a great idea.
I mean, coaching
you will be easy.
‐That right!
‐(laugh)
Mom, Mr. Arthur
is being so unfair.
(baby talk):
Oh baby, what did he
do now to my pumpkin?
Well, Mom, he told me
I wasn't ready to cut hair,
but I've been watching
him work long enough.
‐It's time to put
my skills in action.
‐All right, Booker...
people go to trade school
to become a barber.
You can't just
wake up one morning
with a set of clippers
and roll up on people,
thinking that you
know what's best.
I've been gettin' my
hair cut my whole life.
I think I know what
customers like.
Booker, I need you
to appreciate
this opportunity
that Mr. Arthur
is giving you
and soak up as much
information as you can.
(whoosh)
You've got this.
You can cut every style.
(whoosh)
You know what, Mom?
You're right.
I am going to be happy
with the opportunity.
As you should.
Now, show me those
apprentice skills
and clean up
this kitchen.
♪ ♪
Levi, I can give you
a free haircut.
(shuts drawer)
Um, well...
Come on, Levi!
Take a chance
on your big bro!
I have observed the masters.
You sure you can do this?
I'm sure I can!
And if not,
it‐it will grow back.
Okay, I'll give you a chance.
I've got my fedora
handy just in case.
(sigh)
♪ ♪
All right, Levi,
what do you think?
Wow, this looks great!
Booker, you've got some skills.
See there? I told
Mr. Arthur I was ready.
Maybe one day, you can
start your own barbershop.
Uh, one day?
I gave you
a great cut today.
Okay, well, where would you
start your own barbershop?
‐Our‐our bedroom?
‐Auntie Rae
would never let us.
You're right.
We need a place
where no adults'll
pay attention to us.
Both:
School!
♪ ♪
Nia, I need to ask you
a hypothetical question.
Uh‐oh.
The big words.
Must be serious.
Okay, shoot.
So, say a person did
have a crush on Ramon.
How would that
person go about
taking their relationship
to the next level?
Hypothetically
speaking, of course.
Oh, Tess, I knew it,
I knew it.
‐Oh, you guys
would be so cute...
‐Nia, stop!
‐Hey, see you in class.
‐You know it!
Hey, Nia.
Tess! What was that?
Why didn't you say something?
I did.
I said, "you know it."
That's not what I meant.
Come on, Nia.
The last time
I was crushing on a guy,
he blocked my shot.
Rejection is painful.
Okay, well, why
don't I find out
if he likes you by
doing what I do best.
‐Homework.
‐On Ramon?
Now, that's a class
I'd like to take.
(laughing)
♪ ♪
(bell ringing)
Now, now there it is!
Ha, ha!
Just a quick raid of
the janitor's closet
and Booker's Bathroom Cuts
is open for business.
Hey, do you think he'll notice
his furniture's missing?
Pssh. Look at how
clean this place is!
He's not gonna be back
for another month,
so for
the next 30 days,
this place belongs
to Booker Baxter,
‐barber.
‐(toilet flush)
Hoo!
Good thing
I brought the spray!
‐Ew!
‐Okay, okay!
And I'm ready to sweep.
Oh, selfie!
‐Tag me!
‐(shutter snap)
Fantastic.
Hey, Curtis! My man!
It's your lucky day.
What are you guys doing?
‐Would you like a haircut?
‐Uh, I don't think so?
I'm just here to
use the bathroom.
Well, the bathroom's free!
So is this haircut
I'm offering, by the way.
I'll just clean up your edges!
I'm the best barber in school.
He's the only
barber in school.
♪ ♪
Chels, I am so excited
we're doing this.
‐Are you ready? Okay.
‐Yeah, yeah, yeah!
‐Hello, Ms. Grayson.
‐Hello.
I have brought you
a few options
to add some oomph
to your style.
(English accent):
Ooh! Well, I love
a little oomph!
(laughter)
These are...
these are nice.
I know you normally go with
the romantic, flowy top look,
‐blowing in the wind.
‐Yes. (giggle)
But I think that
you could benefit
from a real
structured boss look.
‐O... kay.
‐Yeah.
Lemme see,
turn around. Oh yes.
Yes. (muttering)
Oh.
I don't know, Rae.
I don't know
if this really feels
like, like me, you know?
Oh, that's because it's not.
It's better! (laugh)
‐What?
‐Oh.
Well, our company's name is
Your Best Dressed Life, so...
this is your best.
And in working towards
your best self,
you‐you really need
to be more aware of
how your words
impact others.
Oh, I am very aware
of what I say.
For example (clears throat),
when you say to someone
it's not you, it's better,
(laugh) can you see how
that might make a person
feel badly about themselves?
I'm not in charge of feels,
Chels. That's you.
And another thing
(clears throat),
maybe don't yell
so much, you know?
I don't yell.
I speak in a loud tone.
‐Oh.
‐It's called passion.
Okay.
Is passion code for
abrasive and belligerent?
When I'm being belligerent,
you gon' know.
You ever heard
the expression,
"You catch more flies
with honey than
you do with vinegar?"
You ever heard the expression,
"Hold my earrings?"
♪ ♪
Mm, I look great.
‐Mm.
‐Yes, you do!
You're as good as the pros.
‐At zero the price.
‐Tell your friends
they can book
appointments with me,
but walk‐ins are welcome.
Look, he should be coming
right about... now.
You know what to do.
Figure out who he likes,
but don't tell
him I like him.
Copy. And don't worry, Tess.
I'll get all the tea, all right?
Hey, Ramon!
Come here!
Hey, what's up, Nia?
So, I figured you'd be
passing by on your way
from Spanish to
science class.
Oh, uh, you know my schedule?
‐Yeah. I'm very observant.
‐Oh.
So, uh, have you
finished reading
A Raisin in the Sun yet?
Uh, yeah. Wait, you're
not in my English class.
No, but I am a student
of fine literature.
‐Uh, well, I really
like the play.
‐What else
do you like, Ramon?
Tell me more.
‐Uh‐‐
‐Your class is this way.
I said, Teach, you can't bring
a live peacock to school‐‐
So!
What kind of
girls do you like?
Did you see I was
talking to somebody?
Eh, not anymore.
Now, you're talking to me.
Don't you like
talking to me?
Uh, sure.
So, Ramon, you never
answered my question.
‐What kind of girls
do you like?
‐Uh, nice.
Like, laid back.
Cool, cool,
cool, cool, cool.
So, uh,
girls with dark hair
whose eyes light up in the sun,
who know what they want?
Uh, yeah.
Yeah, I like that.
Nice.
Girls who are swaggy,
smart, and talented,
like a certain girl
at this school?
‐Um...
‐(bell rings)
I better get to class.
Oh, you're punctual!
I see, Ramon!
We'll talk more after class!
♪ ♪
Well, I'm Chelsea,
and even though
I'm a hot mess,
I still think I can
help other people!
(gasp)
Okay, well, I'm Raven, huh?
And‐and I wear
(imitating):
bold colors
and haute couture
so everyone will pay
attention to me‐‐
me, me, me!
‐Well‐‐ well‐‐
‐Me! Me!
Well, I'm Chelsea,
and I have to remind everyone
that I was an interpretive
dance major!
Ooh! Oh, I'm Raven,
and I have to tell everyone
that I have visions!
I have visions!
Ooh! But, but wait!
My visions are
never correct,
but I still have them!
Well, I'm Chelsea, and I sing
everything like it's opera!
(singing notes
higher and higher)
(high pitched):
This is a pop song,
but I don't sing it like that!
(holds high note)
♪ ♪
Man, the word
is out, Levi.
Yep, we have successfully
launched a new business.
(toilet flush)
‐Come on.
‐(spraying)
You know, thanks for coming.
We appreciate your business.
Okay.
(clears throat)
So, would you, uh,
would you like an edge up?
Oh. Are you sure?
'Cause edge ups are
kinda my specialty.
I mean,
look at Levi.
Look at Curtis.
You got this.
You can cut every style.
You know what, Curtis?
You're right.
You know, I think it's time
I expand my repertoire.
(buzzing)
(clears throat)
All right, let's see.
‐(clippers sputter)
‐Uh, uh, uh, uh, uh...
I can fix that!
I can fix that.
(buzzing)
‐(clippers sputter)
‐Mm!
Uh, uh...
Uh, you know what?
Th‐this one's on the house.
(buzzing)
All right. (clears throat)
‐(clippers sputter)
‐(thud)
Th‐that's kind of
a taper fade, right?
Um, this is on the house.
♪ ♪
(buzzing)
(clippers sputter)
The good news is
I cleaned up your fro.
The better news is
it's on the house.
(flush)
♪ ♪
‐(bang)
‐Whoa.
So, what's
more important,
swag or smarts?
But, you know what?
Why choose?
Okay, listen, Nia,
I think you're cool,
um, but you're not
really my type.
Excuse me?
I'm everybody's type.
(nervous laugh)
Look, you're really nice,
but I think it's best
if we stay friends.
‐Wait, no,
I am not trying to‐‐
‐Wait, Ramon!
Nia's not
interested in you.
Then, why was she asking
me all these questions
and memorizing my schedule?
She was... she was
actually asking for me.
Because I like you.
And she knows
everyone's schedule.
You ever heard of
research, brah?
Wait, Tess, you like me?
Yeah.
She was asking if you
like swaggy girls.
‐I'm all swag.
‐Yeah.
Yeah, you are,
and you're smart,
and you're pretty and funny.
Aw...
You don't have to
say all those things,
but please continue.
Hey, um,
I wanna ask you out,
but I don't wanna
hurt Nia's feelings.
I'm not interested,
all right?!
So, you were saying...
I was saying, wanna
hang out some time?
For sure.
♪ ♪
Boy, I haven't caught a whiff
of your breath all day.
What's going on with you?
Nothing, sir, just,
uh, doing the job
you hired me for.
Well, I guess there's
a first time for everything.
Just last week, I tried that
new fax machine gizmo.
Whoa, whoa!
What is going on here?
Were the drones
flying too low?
I'm telling you,
these drones are
gonna be the end of us.
Back in my day,
if you wanted to see
something high,
you'd climb a tree.
But, hey, I'm not mad.
We haven't been this busy
since the Jheri Curl dried up.
(laughing)
Who messed up your
heads like this?
♪ ♪
All right. Tess is in
my room getting ready.
Her date is gonna come
up here and pick her up.
Do you guys have any
last‐minute advice
or style tips that
you can give her?
Uh, yeah, yeah,
lemme just
yell it back at her!
Hey, Tess!
Blue really makes
your eyes pop!
Tess:
Thank you!
Oh hey, Tess,
I'm so sorry
I can't help you
with your date, honey!
I'm not my best self, so...
Tess:
Uh, can‐can you send
Nia back here?
All right, I don't know
what's going on
with you two,
but please don't be this
way when her date arrives.
(doorbell rings)
I'm gonna go get Tess.
‐Oh, hi, Ramon!
‐Hi, Ramon!
‐Hi.
‐Come on in, honey.
Come in.
Listen, you are going
on a date with a very
confident young lady,
all right?
You need to speak
with more bravado!
‐Huh? Yeah!
‐Uh‐‐ hey!
‐Okay.
‐Good evening, Miss...
Tess' neighbor.
Huh, okay! Good job!
Good evening,
good evening, yes.
‐Yes, good.
‐Oh, that looks great.
Is this your favorite shirt
or is it a new shirt?
‐Uh, favorite shirt.
‐Good. Always good
to stay comfortable,
but not too
comfortable, all right?
Lemme guess.
You're Nia's mom?
‐Oh yes, yes, yes.
There we go.
‐Well...
Hey, Ramon.
Tess!
Wow, you look great.
Um, are you ready to go?
Yeah.
‐Thanks for everything, bestie.
‐Have fun.
Oh, thank you for the advice,
and fashion tip,
Miss neighbor ladies.
I love love.
Raven/Chelsea:
Me, too. (chuckling)
Rae,
look, I‐I'm sorry
if I offended
you earlier.
I love that you're...
passionate about life.
I'm sorry, too, Chels.
‐You really did give
me some great advice.
‐Oh!
And I think that
our business is...
is gonna be okay.
Of course it is.
It's gonna be
better than okay.
You know why?
Because we have
each other. (laugh)
‐I love you.
(both muttering)
Oh. No!
I think this is
too much love.
♪ ♪
Gimme that.
Well, Book,
I guess I owe you.
Um, for what?
For all the new
customers you brought in
because you
screwed up their heads.
Yeah, well...
You need to give those
people their money back.
I didn't charge them.
Good.
You understand why I said
you're not ready to be a barber?
‐I guess.
‐I wasn't saying no
for the sake of saying no.
As an apprentice,
your job is to
watch and learn.
And I have been. A lot.
And when you're ready,
I'll be happy to hand you
your own set of clippers.
But, you gotta crawl
before you walk.
I understand.
Cheeseburger with onion rings,
coleslaw, sweet potato fries.
That's not what
I had for lunch.
No, somebody threw
that in the trash.
Go take those cans out back.
‐Yes, sir.
‐Yeah.
♪ ♪
‐All right, son, now take
it easy. Doin' good.
‐(buzzing)
‐(sigh)
‐Slow and steady wins the race.
(scoff) Steady being
the operative word.
Leave him alone, Levi!
He's trying to concentrate!
Well then, maybe you
two should be quiet.
Come on, Booker.
Fade it, Booker, fade it‐‐
Ow!
That is my baby!
All right.
What do you guys think?
Not bad,
young blood.
In a few years,
you might be ready
for a human subject.
‐A few years?
‐Yeah!
I started on
a bonsai tree,
then a poodle,
then moved up to an alpaca.
That's how you train.
Mr. Arthur, I wanna
thank you so much
for being a great
influence on Booker.
Oh, you don't have to thank me.
That's what I'm supposed to do.
I know it's probably
hard to believe, but, uh,
‐I used to be a knucklehead.
‐(gasp) No!
‐Mm‐hmm. Yeah. Yeah.
‐No. No!
(laughter)
Well, I know it's hard to
believe, but I used to be
a little bit of
a knucklehead myself.
Oh. Oh, I...
I believe it.
♪ ♪